.\" t
.\" $Id: auto.master.5,v 1.4 2000/06/19 23:55:57 hpa Exp $
.TH AUTO.MASTER 5 "19 Jun 2000"
.SH NAME
/etc/auto.master \- Master Map for automounter
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.B auto.master
map is consulted when the
.BR autofs (8)
script is invoked to set up the necessary mount points for the automounter.
Each line in this file describes a mount point and points to another file
describing the file systems to be mounted under this mountpoint. The access
to those maps is governed by a key.
.P
Access to an automounted file system is customarily done using the path scheme:
.P
.RI / mountpoint / key / path / file ,
.P
where the
.I mountpoint
will be listed in the
.B auto.master
configuration file. The
.I key
is matched in the map file pointed to by the
master map (See
.BR autofs (5)).
The path and the file are referring to the file on the file system mounted.
.SH "FORMAT"
The file has three fields separated by an arbitrary number of blanks or
tabs. Lines beginning with # are comments. The first field is the mount
point. Second field is the map file to be consulted for this mount-point.
The third field is optional and can contain options to be applied to all
entries in the map. Options are cumulative, which is a difference to the
behavior of the SunOS automounter.

The format of the map file and the options are described in
.BR autofs (5).
.SH EXAMPLE
.sp
.RS +.2i
.ta 1.0i
.nf
/home	/etc/auto.home
/misc	/etc/auto.misc
.fi
.RE
.sp
This will generate two mountpoints 
.I /home
and
.IR /misc .
All accesses to
.I /home
will lead to the consultation of the map in
.IR /etc/auto.home ,
and all accesses to
.I /misc
will consult the map in
.IR /etc/auto.misc .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR automount (8),
.BR autofs (5),
.BR autofs (8).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Christoph Lameter <chris@waterf.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system.  Edited by <hpa@transmeta.com>.
