.\" Linux man page by B. James Phillippe, 1997 <bryan@Terran.ORG>
.\"
.\" This page was written to contribute to the Linux kernel autofs
.\" implementation by H. Peter Anvin (1997).  It is loosly based on
.\" the documentation for mount(8) and amd(8) Linux manpages.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation.
.\"
.\" $Id: automount.8,v 1.7 2000/06/19 23:55:57 hpa Exp $
.\"
.TH AUTOMOUNT 8 "19 Jun 2000"
.SH NAME
automount \- configure mount points for autofs
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBautomount\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fImount-point\fP \fImap-type\fP[,\fIformat\fP] \fImap\fP [\fImap-options\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBautomount\fP program is used to configure a mount point for
autofs, the inlined Linux automounter.  \fBautomount\fP works by
taking a base \fImount-point\fP and \fImap\fP file, and using these 
(combined with other \fIoptions\fP) to automatically mount filesystems 
within the base \fImount-point\fP when they are accessed in any way.
The filesystems are then autounmounted after a period of inactivity.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-p, \-\-pid-file"
Write the pid of the daemon to the specified file.
.TP
.I "\-t, \-\-timeout"
Set the minimum timeout, in seconds, until directories are unmounted.
The default is 5 minutes.  Setting the timeout to zero disables
unmounts completely.
.TP
.I "\-v, \-\-version"
Display the version number, then exit.
.SH ARGUMENTS
\fBautomount\fP takes at least three arguments.  Mandatory arguments 
include \fImount-point\fP, \fImap-type\fP and \fImap\fP.  Both mandatory
and optional arguments are described below.
.TP
\fBmount-point\fP
Base location for autofs-mounted filesystems to be attached.  This is a
directory name which must already exist.
.TP
\fBmap-type\fP
Type of map used for this invocation of \fBautomount\fP.  The following are
valid map types:
.RS
.TP
.B file
The map is a regular text file.
.TP
.B program
The map is an executable program, which is passed a key on the command
line and returns an entry on stdout if successful.
.TP
.B yp
The map is a NIS (YP) database.
.TP
.B nisplus
The map is a NIS+ database.
.TP
.B hesiod
The map is a hesiod database whose
.B filsys
entries are used for maps.
.TP
.B ldap
map names are of the form \fB[servername:]basedn\fP, where the optional
\fBservername\fP is the name of the LDAP server to query, and \fBbasedn\fP is
the DN to do a subtree search under.  Entries are \fBautomount\fP objects in
the specified subtree, where the \fBcn\fP attribute is the key (the wildcard
key is "/"), and the \fBautomounterInformation\fP attribute contains the
information used by the automounter.  Documentation on the schema
used by this module is available online at
\fIhttp://docs.iplanet.com/docs/manuals/directory/411ext/nis/mapping.htm\fP.
.RE
.TP
\fBformat\fP Format of the map data; currently the only formats
recognized are \fBsun\fP, which is a subset of the Sun automounter map
format, and \fBhesiod\fP, for hesiod filesys entries.  If the format is
left unspecified, it defaults to \fBsun\fP for all map types except
\fBhesiod\fP.
.TP
\fBmap\fP
Location of mapfile to use.  This is an absolute UNIX pathname in the case
for maps of types \fBfile\fP or \fBprogram\fP, and the name of a database
in the case for maps of type \fByp\fP, \fBnisplus\fP, or \fBhesiod\fP.
.TP
\fBoptions\fP
Any remaining command line arguments without leading dashes (\-) are
taken as options (\fI\-o\fP) to \fBmount\fP.  Arguments with leading
dashes are considered options for the maps.
.SH NOTES
If the \fBautomount\fP daemon catches signal USR1, it will unmount all
currently unused autofs-mounted filesystems and continue running
(forced unmount.)  If it catches signal USR2 it will unmount all
unused autofs-mounted filesystems and exit if all filesystems were
unmounted.  Busy filesystems will not be unmounted.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR autofs (5),
.BR mount (8).
.SH BUGS
A whole slew of missing desirable features (see \fBTODO\fP file).

The documentation leaves a lot to be desired.

Please report other bugs along with a detailed description to
<autofs@linux.kernel.org>.  To join this mailing list, send a message
with the line "subscribe autofs" to <majordomo@linux.kernel.org>.
.SH AUTHOR
H. Peter Anvin <hpa@transmeta.com>
